# Data Science Capstone Project: Body Condition in Northern Spring Salamander linked to Environment
*By: Kai Barreras*
###### This project began at the Hubbard Brook Ecological Forest in the White Mountains of New Hampshire under the instruction of the Lowe Lab. The data collected was then analyzed to fulfill the Data Science Major capstone. The data was cleaned to remove salamander observations of a species other than the *Gyrinophilus porphyriticus* and any "missed" observations. I then reduced the data set to include only one randomly sampled observation of each salamander. Data was split into training and testing sets and models were fit. To find the best multi-linear regression model I first ran a logistic regression of the environmental predictors on Stage and then fit three models, the initial, first-order model, the interactive model, and the reduced model. I compared the model fit by predicting on the testing set to better understand which predictors are most significantly associated with variation in SVL. 

## Data Collection Methods: 
###### Observations of 718 distinct salamanders were sampled from six different streams in the Hubbard Brook Ecological Forest during capture mark and recapture surveys. The surveys took place along 500-meter stretches of each stream site. For every one meter, a rock within the stream path was randomly flipped. If a salamander was found under the rock, its capture would be attempted. Environmental data was collected regarding the rock size, the meter mark the salamander was found at, and the positions in the anatomy of the stream the salamander was found. If caught, and had no pre-existing pittag associated, the salamander was pittaged and measured, or its old pittag number was recorded and its measurements were noted. Each salamander was returned to its original location under the same rock they were found after processing. 
